\chapter{Introduction}
\label{chap:introduction}

The Standard Model (SM) of particle physics is a quantum field theory that
describes the dynamics of elementary particles and their interactions through
the electromagnetic, strong and weak forces. The {SM} has been tested with a
high degree of precision and accuratley predicts all processes that are observed
in nature, with the exception of the gravity and neutrino oscillations. The {SM}
also predicts the existance of the Higgs boson, which may be the particle
discovered by the {LHC} experiments ({CMS} and {ATLAS}) and announced on the
fourth of July last year\cite{chatrchyan2012observation,aad2012observation}.

The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at European Laboratory for Particle Physics
(CERN) in Geneva is a particle accelerator designed to colide protons at
\unit{14}{\TeV} with a luminosity of \unit{$10^{34}$}{\lumiunits}. This thesis
is concerned with data colleved by the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment at
the {LHC}, a general purpose detector with a range of goals including discovery
of the Higgs boson and the precise measurements of the {SM}.

The analysis presented in this thesis is a measurement of the electron charge
asymmetry in inclusive \PW production. The asymmetric production of \PW bosons
is an important observable; in proton-proton collisions the \PWp is  produced at
a higher rate that the \PWm due to the excess of up type quarks with respect to
down type quarks. Furthermore, the \PWp will tend to be produced at larger
rapidities while the \PWm is mostly produced at central rapidities. A
measurement of the asymmetry as a function of the rapidiy of the boson can
provide inportant information on the parton densities of the colliding protons,
specifically the $\nicefrac{u}{d}$ quark ratio.  In the electronic decay of the
\PW the longditudinal component of the neutrino momentum is lost so the boson
rapidity is unmeasurable. What is measurable is the electron charge asymmetry as
a function of the electron pseudorapidity. 

This thesis is structured as follows, in \ChapterRef{chap:sm} an overview of the
constiuent particles  and the fundemental interactions of the the {SM} is given.
\ChapterRef{chap:wboson} describes the production of the \PW bosons and their
decay to an electron and neutrino. Also shown are some theoretical predictions
of the electron charge asymmetry for different PDFs.  \ChapterRef{chap:LHC}
introduces the {LHC} and the {CMS} detector and its subdetectors.  In
\ChapterRef{chap:objects}, the particle reconstruction algorithms used in CMS
are summarised with the electron reconstruction and identifiaction methods
described in detail. The measurement of the electron charge asymmetry with
\unit{36}{\invpb} of data is presented in \ChapterRef{chap:analysis}. The update
to the measurement with \unit{840}{\invpb} is presented in
\ChapterRef{chap:update}. \ChapterRef{chap:conclusion} provides a summary of
the results.




